Is the destiny of mankind controlled by some transcendental entity or law?
Is it like the hand of God hovering above?
At least it is true...
...that man has no control, even over his own will.
What the hell happened?
Feel no shame about shape.
Weather changes their phrase.
Even mother will show you another way.
So put your glasses on.
Nothing will be wrong.
There's no blame. There's no fame.
It's up to you.
The first words should be found.
Whatever holds you back.
I... ...can... I can get it off.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you want.
I don't know why... Don't know why...
Don't know why you're afraid.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you'd say.
I don't know why... Don't know why... Too late...
It's too late.
The Great Eclipse
What is this?
Where the hell are we?
Hey!
Weren't we just riding over grassy plains?
Or were we just dreaming as we rode along?
Or without realizing it... ...d-d-did we all just die?
Calm down!
Calm down?
How the hell are we going to calm down?
Quiet!
Everyone, compose yourselves!
Forget about what you can't understand!
Focus on what you can do!
Everyone, make a tight formation!
No one is to stray from the group!
Guts, get Griffith on your horse!
Got it!
Hurry up, over there!
Even under these circumstances...
She's one hell of a woman.
All right, Griffith, here we go.
What is this doing here?
I know for sure Griffith didn't have it when we rescued him.
And it's such a strange shape...
Griffith.
The time has come...
Time for the great festival of darkness...
The banquet that happens only once every 216 years...
The Great Eclipse!
Where did they come from...
What the hell are they?
They are coming... They are near...
The rulers of the supreme beings...
It is the advent of the four guardian angels!
What the... What is it?
A giant?
One after the other... I'm dreaming...
This has to be a dream!
What now?
What the hell is going on?
It is now time for the great blessing.
We thank you all for gathering here...
...in this sacred time and place for the final chapter.
O unholy lambs, children of man...
Come and enjoy this divine banquet...
Chosen by the laws of causality...
Our Apostle, our Hawk!
You are the appointed one.
Here in this place, in this moment...
You who have been chosen by the hand of God.
You, our kin.
Our long-awaited blessed king!
Griffith?
Kin?
Griffith is a...
Cut the crap!
First you drag us to this godforsaken place...
And now you think you're going to have your way with him?
Apostle?
Kin?
Don't be ridiculous!
There's not one shred of him that resembles the likes of you!
How dare you say he's one of you monsters!
Guts!
What a beautiful friendship.
You will certainly be an excellent living sacrificial offering...
A living sacrifice?
Yes.
The precious living sacrifice needed for him to become a demon king.
Demon king... Living sacrifice?
Exactly.
From the moment you took hold of the Crimson Behelit...
...you became deserving of the title demon king.
In fact, it is because you inherently possessed...
...the requirements that it fell into your hands.
And the fact you used the behelit to summon us...
...is proof that you are entitled to become one of us.
All the corpses that have gathered here have used behelits...
...to take on the forms they were destined to assume.
You don't mean that...
All of you are really...
And the behelit you hold in your hand is no ordinary behelit!
The Crimson Behelit falls...
...only into the hands of us guardian angels, those destined to become...
...members of the God Hand.
The Egg of the King.
And all of you are here to serve as living sacrificial offerings...
...for the christening of this angel...
You're saying that you will transform Griffith into one of these beasts?
In exchange for our lives?
Not quite.
It will be his will, not ours.
It is he who will offer you as living sacrifices...
That's impossible...
It's impossible.
It is all fixed in the flow of causality...
His fate was decided long ago.
Your lives were all destined to come together at this sacred moment...
...the sacrificial ceremony.
We will now begin the baptism ceremony.
Bring him to the altar!
What the...
Guts!
Griffith!
Baptism!
Are you afraid?
Of us?
Of those who are infinitely more powerful than you?
Of our almighty power?
Or are you afraid of what lies ahead?
Before we venture into the future, let us travel back once more...
...to the landscape of your past...
And by doing that, you shall see the truth.
And see exactly what it is you are...
What?
Did everyone go home?
We all said we were going to see the castle.
Oh well... I'll go by myself.
Hey, where am I?
I think I'm lost.
Hey, old lady.
Which way is the castle?
This way?
Thank you.
Yes, yes.
Your friends went ahead. They'll be waiting.
I think I've ended up somewhere I shouldn't be.
Hey, anybody there?
What a noisy child!
Old lady, it's horrible!
There are so many dead people... I know...
You know?
That's terrible. You knew, and you lied to me.
I didn't lie.
This is the only path that leads to the castle.
The only path...
Those heading toward that castle must either trample over the fallen...
...or else become one of them too. It's one or the other!
See here. It's your friend!
Y-You're...
You're going to the castle to become king, aren't you?
You're amazing!
I want to be a knight one day... See?
Hey...
Take me with you.
I'll give you this if you do.
I promise I'll work hard.
All right?
No... What?
Why not?
I can't... Because you're already...
You're already dead...
Take us with you too... We want to fight with you...
I have faith that you can make it to the castle...
I would love to see the empire you'll build...
I want to fight under your flag...
No...
I can't... I can't take you with me...
You're all dead...
None of you are alive anymore!
That's why I can't take any of you to the castle!
I'm sorry... I'm so sorry...
My, my... what a silly child you are!
After all, you're the one who did this to all these people!
Isn't that so?
They ended up this way because they were following your lead.
If you hadn't said that you wanted to venture up there...
...then none of this would have happened.
But...
I never forced anyone to come along...
Oh, what a thing to say!
How do you think you were able to come this far?
Listen now!
This path that you've chosen...
...is paved with those people's bodies.
And that's not all.
Those people have piled on several times more bodies...
...than just the ones you started with...
...so that you could get where you are now.
There, take a look...
If you're to make it all the way to the castle...
...you'll need to pave your path with more and more bodies!
What's wrong?
Are you scared now?
Do you want to turn back now?
You can't think like that!
If you succumb to your fears...
...you'll end up as one of those bodies yourself!
Look closely now at your own hands.
My hands!
What a silly boy!
If you were going to regret your actions...
...you never should've come here in the first place.
Things are not easy here, you know!
Why couldn't you be satisfied with just gazing at the castle from the alleyway?
I had no...
I had no idea!
Be quiet!
You must have known what kind of place this was!
Yes, I've known... ...all along...
...and walked all over them...
...to get here...
What's holding you back after all this time?
This is the path that leads to your dream, isn't it?
That's what you believe, right?
So what's causing you to hesitate now?
That's right. Pile them up even higher!
It's not too late.
You have no other choice!
Before you become one of them, go forth and pile up more bodies!
Yes.
What is the point of regretting anything?
What is the use of repenting my sins?
What can I possibly say to those who have died?
I cannot apologize to them now.
This is...
...the path that I have chosen.
If I regret my actions or seek atonement, then it's all over.
And I will never reach my destined goal...
Yes.
That is who you are.
An illusion?
Not an illusion.
It is the reality in your consciousness.
Reaching for the castle in the heavens...
Stacking bodies to reach the highest summit is your destiny.
Stepping on thousands of your comrades' bodies...
...and tens of thousands of bodies your comrades paved for you in turn.
All while disregarding who or what they were, you trampled your way here!
You carried only one thought in your mind.
And now you have reached the end of the path.
Look around...
This is your gift, here at the final destination of your bloody journey.
All of the hawk wings that have accompanied you in flight...
Each pair of wings...
Surely they will forgive you...
Even if they are racked by despair at this moment...
They will welcome you with open arms...
And you shall live on...
Entrust your wounded body to them...
Leave your past behind...
And bury yourself in the ruins of your dreams.
The ruins...
...of my dreams...
That is the divine punishment created by man.
But if your dream is still alive...
If that castle still dazzles you more than anything else in this world...
You must stack the remaining stones that surround you...
Let us chant...
This we offer.
Hesitation will not let the black wings fly from mountain top to the heavens.
Fate is beyond human understanding...
If the laws of causality dictate that man is only to be toyed with...
...then his child must confront his destiny by embracing evil.
Griffith!
Yes...
Out of all the thousands of comrades and tens of thousands of enemies.
Only one...
You and you alone...
You made me forget my dream.
I offer them all...
Griffith!
The threads of causality are now bound together...
The promised hour is now here!
Looking back, the morning comes.
Don't find your face in your glass.
Take the moonlight by the tail.
It's a rainy sight. You're shading.
What is that?
It's just the same.
What is trying your crown?
I'm spending my glass, walking back.
So wear my glass. You're fading.
I'm waiting so long.
I'm waiting...
Next Episode
Time of Eternity